Add checklist and responsibility document for Fireside chat (#2985)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/community-handbook/fireside-chat/fireside-chat-checklist.md

(ch-fireside-chat-checklist)=

> # Fireside Chat Planning Checklist

Author: True, we do have a template planning document listed I believe, but that can definitely be moved to a subchapter and linked as a template.

## Before the Event

- Create a planning issue on GitHub using the [issue template - Fireside Chat Checklist](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/issues/new/choose)

> - Create a Zoom link with a waiting room and live transcription enabled

Author: There is indeed no Turing Way zoom account. Either @aleesteele or I create from our personal account and invite speakers (if from the Turing) as co-hosts (we always have at least one Turing member on the panel). I can edit to reflect that.

> - Create a Zoom link with a waiting room and live transcription enabled

Author: ```suggestion
- A Turing Way team member (Community Manager or Research Project Manager) will create a Zoom link with a waiting room and live transcription enabled. They will also open the call on the day of the event, and give 'co-host rights' to all facilitators to allow them to manage Zoom participants and chats.
```

- Set another check-in at least 2 weeks in advance to touch base and discuss the plans and questions with the speakers - assign 1-2 questions for each speaker to begin 
- Plan with cohost who will ask which question, how you will time keep, what channel you will use to ask questions to each other privately, who will monitor the chat (maybe ask someone outside this group to help with note taking and chat monitoring)
- Update the calendar invite with Zoom, Etherpad and Eventbrite -- encouraging them to share the Eventbrite page in their network
- Identify someone from the community who can do the introduction of The Turing Way, code of conduct reminder and pass it to the speakers

## During the session

- Open the Zoom call 15 minutes in advance (keep the waiting room of Zoom enabled)
- test if speakers' microphone, camera and internet work alright - help troubleshoot any tech challenge
- Let participants in right on time
- Welcome them and share Etherpad
- Remind them that the call will be recorded and that participants can use chat (but may not have the chance to speak during the 60 minutes live)

> - start recording and enable transcription

Reviewer: Another thought, do we want the recording to be on someone's local computer or in the cloud?

> - start recording and enable transcription

Author: Oh good point. Cloud is the best option.

- In 5 minutes past as people join, the person designated to welcome them will introduce the Turing Way, CoC, and Etherpad information and Present the topic
- Hosts then introduce themselves and post the opening questions allowing all speakers including the co-host to share their position on the topic in 2 minutes
- As planned in the agenda, hosts ask the question posed to the specific speaker, follow up response from the other speaker is invited
- Speakers will make sure that everyone on the panel has had an equal chance to discuss and share their opinions
- Any question from the chat is copied over the Etherpad, in the last 10 minutes publically posed question can be asked

> - The recorded session finish with 30 second closing argument

Reviewer: Although, we may just want to limit this to speakers?

> - The recorded session finish with 30 second closing argument

Author: That's true. I have removed the time limit now.

- After the recorded part of the discussion (60-75 minutes), all participants are reminded of the next stage of unrecorded discussion informally with the speakers 
- Hosts close the call after 90 minutes of the session (with 15-30 minutes unrecorded discussion)

## After the session

> - Send a thank you email to the speakers - within 1 day
> - Archive all notes here: https://hackmd.io/@turingway/fireside-chats
> - Download the video from Zoom and edit the live transcription (proofread cc)
> - Upload the video on The Turing Way youtube - label and annotate well, and add the flyer as the video's front page
> - Share the published videos with the speakers
> - Summarise the session to add to The Turing Way -- invite someone from the community who could do that 
> - Promote the video via Slack, Newsletter, Twitter
> - Send a thank you email to the Eventbrite participants sharing the video and inviting any ideas and suggestions for improvement via a standard feedback form
> - Update the book chapter and templates if needed
> - Update the video link here and update the section for the upcoming Fireside chat
> - Add speakers to this GitHub repo using `all-contributions bot` for presentation
> - Close the planning issue as complete!

Author: ```suggestion
- Send a thank you email to the speakers (within 1 day)
- Archive session notes by copying them from Etherpad to the internal planning document
- Download the video from Zoom and edit the live transcription (proofread for accuracy) -- invite volunteer support as needed
- Upload the video on The Turing Way youtube - label and annotate well, and add the flyer as the video's front page
- Share the published videos with the speakers
- Summarise the session to add to The Turing Way -- invite someone from the community who could help with that 
- Promote the video via Slack, Newsletter, Twitter
- Send a thank you email to the Eventbrite participants sharing the video and inviting any ideas and suggestions for improvement via a standard feedback form
- Update the book chapter and templates if needed
- Add speakers to the contributors table on GitHub repo using `all-contributions bot` for presentation
- Close the planning issue as complete!
```
